so I went on a USA climbing trip in
November I left but I wasn't able to
climb whilst I was there because I
injured my finger just before leaving so
it wasn't the most ideal climbing trip
I've ever been on but how many still
loved it and it was cool to see some
places and then my boyfriend here I was
away with he dislocated his ankles so we
decided to fly home it was a bit of a
disasterous trip actually we got broken
into and then we had mice and I've had
and the a our clothes and it just wasn't
good from the very beginning so yeah we
came home early which meant I got some
extra training in and got some time to
rehab my finger I work closely with my
coach mark who I wouldn't be here
without for sure and I also had a lot of
help from Red Bull they really helped me
with physios and scans and consultants
to make sure that my finger was good and
I could train in there and we knew like
a rehab program so that I wasn't gonna
come back too soon and then I just did a
lot of training I guess lots of
different kinds of things it's hard for
me to remember it's hard for me to know
what to what training I did because my
coach and I worked so close together and
I put my trust in him so he basically
tells me what to do and I do it no I
don't do weights but I do a lot of stuff
off the climbing wall I climb probably
like 60 70 percent and then the rest is
training I use a peacemaker a lot to
make sure my fingers are strong and also
to try and rehab my fingers as well when
I do get injured I think that's really
important to be on the fingerboard and
doing things that are controlled you can
also gain a lot of strength that way and
I do a lot of stuff from the gimme craft
work as well and I try and mix it up
quite a lot well I thought I do my coach
does so I'm pretty much to see whatever
he tells me to I think that I don't know
him it's that we're taking it seriously
maybe it's just that the opportunity is
that there aren't so many coaches and
climbing not an elite level anyway and
it it is difficult to find someone who
you work well with it took mark and I a
long time to learn how to work together
because it is a relationship so and you
have to nurture it and look after it and
we've really found a balance that works
well for us but it's not easy and I'm
sure you would agree with that and I
don't think I'm a very easy person to
work with but somehow he puts up with me
so that's good and but yeah I don't know
if if it's just that there are many
coaches so that's why there are many
athletes but mark and I were lucky
enough to find each other and like a
close enough vicinity for it to work
well but yeah I was already making world
cup finals without a coach but the
amount that it has brought me on is
unbelievable and it's hard to describe I
think I guess it shows what he can do
and then yeah I think it's definitely
changing the sport and yeah be excited
to see where it can gets it with more
research and more money put into the
research behind on how to train how to
get better at climbing so I think it's
gonna be really exciting I guess it's
different every year because you have to
juggle injuries and you have to juggle
your training and also what else is
going on in your life but for me this
year I definitely tape it a little bit
but I get yeah I don't really know why I
did I think my training sessions were
shorter but I don't know I tend to have
quite a lot of fun when I'm training and
that's one of the most important things
for me is to enjoy climbing and if I'm
not enjoying training and climbing I
think my coach just kicks me back onto
the wall makes me do a load I knows and
fun stuff so I remember why I'm doing it
and that that really is the the core for
me is to have fun when I'm training and
to bounce up the people who I'm training
with then to really enjoy it so yeah I
guess I don't really remember exactly
what I'm doing I don't remember the bad
Vince because I'm just so psyched about
the good boots